---
layout: post
title: Introduction to Data Science for Life Scientists (MBIO740)
---

## Overview

Data driven discovery is a research paradigm that leverages
increasingly massive datasets, in conjunction with state-of-the-art
computational and mathematical techniques -- popularly referred to as
data science -- to further scientific discovery and gain valuable
insight.Â This course will introduce fundamental data science concepts
required for efficiently preprocessing, analyzing, visualizing, and
storing large research data. Biology students can directly apply the
knowledge acquired in this course to tackle the analysis of their own
datasets or to gain the theoretical and practical expertise which will
prepare them for more advanced data analysis-related courses (e.g.,
[ICS 435: Machine Learning Fundamentals](); or [ICS491 Special Topics: Big
Data Analytics]()).

The course will use a flipped classroom model. It assumes little to no
prior experience in programming and will start from the basics of
Python under the Jupyter notebook environment.

The three core topics covered in this class emphasize:

1. Python as a tool for data processing: the subtopics that will be
emphasized are data wrangling using Pandas, data visualization
libraries, batch parallel computing and pipelines.

2. Overview of some of the mathematical theory underlying
data-analysis strategies, specifically in combinatorics, probability
distributions, linear algebra and basic optimization.

3. Introduction to popular data-analysis algorithms, such as those
used for sampling from complex distributions, dimensionality
reduction, as well as supervised and unsupervised machine learning.




